Translator: Leonardo Silva
Reviewer: David DeRuwe
Before we dive in, I want to ask
a couple of questions.
First, how many of you
are vegetarian or vegan?
Okay, a few - around maybe 5%.
If we asked all US adults,
it would be around 5, maybe 10%.
Now, how many of you have seen
at least one of the following:
a video of animal cruelty
on factory farms,
a documentary or news report
on the environmental harms
of animal agriculture,
or a scientific article
on the public health issues
such as the overuse
of antibiotics in animal feed?
How many?
Okay, almost everyone.
Probably over 95%.
Now, when I see that jump from 5%,
I worry that I've made a huge mistake.
Full disclosure, I'm a vegan.
(Laughter)
I'm even a preachy vegan,
who tells everyone I meet
about the problems of animal farming
because I really do think it's one
of the most important issues of our time.
But my mistake, and the mistake
of other food advocates,
has been trying to fix these issues
solely by telling you personally
to go vegan, vegetarian,
or to reduce your meat consumption.
We need a bigger, better solution
for our broken food system.
And you might wonder if our country
has at least switched from factory farming
to more humane practices.
I grew up in rural Texas.
I spent a lot of time
around farmed animals
lounging on green pastures.
Back then, I thought
all farmed animals lived that way.
Unfortunately, according to USDA data,
over 99% of farmed animals
live on factory farms.
The situation is dire.
There are over 100 billion animals
in the global food system.
Many of them are confined in tiny cages,
barely larger than their own bodies.
Their beaks and tails
are cut off without anesthetic.
They suffer, day and night,
from infectious diseases
and intense artificial selection
that has them growing so much meat
that they collapse under their own weight.
Animal farming pollutes
our land and water,
endangering the health
and economies of rural Americans.
It's responsible for more
greenhouse gas emissions
than all planes, cars, trains
and other transportation combined.
Eighty percent of all US antibiotics
are fed to farmed animals,
leading to dangerous,
incurable human diseases.
Finally, animal farming
is just incredibly expensive.
It receives $38 billion in subsidies
every year from the US government,
and it sucks up massive amounts
of natural resources
that should be going
to help people in need.
I think we can all agree
that this is an urgent social issue
that we desperately need to fix.
And by "we," I don't
just mean vegetarians.
I mean everyone who cares
about these problems.
Finding a solution
to this seemingly intractable issue
is also a fascinating
intellectual problem,
one we can tackle with the tools
of Effective Altruism ...
their growing mindset in charity,
business and politics
of using evidence-based research
to find and implement the most effective
solutions to the world's biggest problems.
The most powerful tool
we have is innovation.
The amazing thing is that we don't have
to give up meat, dairy, or eggs
to end animal farming.
Think about it: what's meat?
It's fat, protein, water
and trace minerals.
All these ingredients are readily
available in the plant kingdom.
They're just not assembled
in the architecture of meat.
That's what a cow does.
But a cow also does
a lot of stuff we don't need.
She grows hair, teeth, bones.
She walks around;
she breathes, thinks, and feels.
These extra processes mean
that for every 10 calories of plant-based
food we feed a farmed animal,
we get around 1 calorie of meat in return.
Even with the nutrient animal products
are most known for, protein,
for every 10 grams of plant-based,
we get, at most, 2 grams of animal-based.
So what if we assembled
these ingredients ourselves
with a more efficient, ethical process?
That's the approach of companies
like Beyond Meat, Hungry Planet,
and Impossible Foods.
They've already succeeded
in making a beef burger made from plants.
Many consumers can't
even tell the difference.
Today, they're just
perfecting that product
and scaling up the process
to lower costs and widen distribution.
In fact, the Beyond Burger pictured here
is already available in Mississippi.
But let's be cautious.
What if consumers are really picky?
What if they don't just want something
that tastes like animal meat,
but something that is actually made
from animal cells?
Well, there's good news.
Scientists and chefs have been working
on so-called clean meat,
real meat made without the food safety
and ethical cost of animal slaughter.
To do this, they take a small sample
of cells from a living animal
and place those cells in a cultivator,
which looks like one
of the big tanks at a beer brewery.
Inside, the cells mix
with the nutrients they need to grow
in the same process
that happens inside an animal's body,
and voila!
You can have your cow and eat beef too.
(Laughter)
But you might be thinking,
"Not all beneficial technologies
are widely adopted, right?
So what if something goes wrong?
What if the technology is fully developed,
but perceived as just another
food for vegetarians?
Or what if an irresponsible company
lets their product get contaminated,
leading to a cascade of negative press
that cripples the industry?"
With conventional meat, we see
contamination scandals all the time,
but for a young industry
like clean meat, it could be fatal.
It's like self-driving cars,
where the industry needs to be
especially careful about collisions,
despite having an overall
better safety record.
So what social change will we see
on our way to an animal-free food system?
The biggest one is a shift
beyond the individual
and towards institutional change.
Like I said earlier,
advocates have thus far focused heavily
on one-by-one diet change,
but I believe we'll see
the biggest changes
happen with changes to institutions
like businesses, government,
nonprofits and society as a whole.
There's a lot of evidence
that this strategy is more effective.
Last year, I was at a protest,
calling for a restaurant chain to reform
its animal-welfare policies,
just basic stuff, like choosing
healthier breeds of chickens,
or having windows in the chicken sheds.
A pedestrian walked up and thanked me
profusely for helping these poor animals.
I told him he was welcome to join us,
as bystanders sometimes do,
and he said, "Oh no, no, no.
I can't. I'm not a vegetarian."
I insisted that he was welcome
to join us without being vegetarian.
We were just calling
for better treatment for these animals.
But he was unconvinced.
He saw vegetarianism as a prerequisite
to helping farmed animals
because advocates have conflated
the two for so long.
If we had, instead,
used an institutional framing,
that bystander might have joined us
and maybe become vegetarian along the way.
This strategy also helps people avoid
what psychologists call
"the collapse of compassion,"
the feeling of apathy that comes
when we encounter a big problem
without clearly seeing the big solution.
The institutional framing
puts that solution,
changing society as a whole,
front and center in our messaging.
This strategy is also well-evidenced
by historical social movements,
which is what I spend
most of my time researching.
Virtually no movements -
from environmentalism, children's rights,
antislavery, feminism
to antiwar movements -
have succeeded with the heavy,
individual focus
that we see in the farmed-animal movement.
Consumer advocacy like boycotts
have succeeded when used as tools
for institutional change,
but failed when treated as an end goal.
We need to learn from the past.
The second big change is a shift
beyond opposition to factory farming alone
and towards opposition
to animal farming as whole.
There's a lot of evidence
for this strategy too.
First, numerous investigations have shown
that so-called humane farms
are rarely humane in practice.
The most picturesque farm
I've ever been on
was an award-winning California egg farm.
But because of the farm's natural
and organic policies,
they didn't vaccinate the birds
or give them antibiotics,
like factory farms do.
This led to atrocious health.
I saw many cases of Marek's,
a highly contagious disease that often
leads to blindness and missing eyes;
fluid belly, some birds
with over a pound of fluid buildup
inside their less than five-pound bodies;
fungal infections;
lice on almost all of them;
and many birds crippled by eggs
that had gotten stuck
inside them on the way out.
I've been dismayed
that the reality of these farms
is nearly as bad as factory farming.
While reduction in suffering
is something we should applaud,
and it can be a step towards abolition,
the unmitigated suffering
is still a moral catastrophe.
Second, simply the idea
that there are humane ways
to raise and kill animals for food
is a huge roadblock,
even if you just oppose factory farming.
Seventy-five percent of people think
they usually eat meat from animals
who were treated humanely,
but as we saw earlier,
less than 1% of farmed animals
actually live on non-factory farms.
That's crazy, right?
Why are consumers so confused?
Well, when we eat animals,
there's a cognitive dissonance
that claws at us
because deep down,
we care about animals too.
What seems to happen
is that our subconscious
protects us from this dissonance
by creating a psychological refuge.
It tells us that, actually,
everything is okay,
that farmed animals are treated well,
even when the facts point
in the opposite direction.
This mistaken belief protects us
from the conflict between
our values and our behavior.
And the misleading labels
on animal products,
like pictures of green pastures
on cartons of factory farm eggs,
exacerbate this issue.
Finally,
these farms are just too expensive
to feed this hungry planet.
So-called humane animal products
are already several times
the normal price.
Many of us just can't afford that.
And the demand on natural resources
is just too much for this planet to bear,
especially when we can get the same foods
from more sustainable sources.
Fortunately, the future is bright.
Today, we're at an inflection point,
where the moral reasons to change
our food system are very compelling.
Technology is on its way
and excellent alternatives
are already here,
and advocates are wising up
to more impactful strategies.
It's incredibly empowering to have
this wealth of evidence available,
from history, psychology and elsewhere,
to analyze using the effective
altruism perspective.
Ultimately, that evidence suggests
that we can achieve
a truly humane food system
if we strive towards the end
of animal farming.
And public opinion is already
a lot further along on this
than you might think.
Forty-seven percent of US adults
already say they support a ban
on slaughter houses.
As we transition,
as we align our food system
with our values,
we're going to see a sweeping change
in the relationship between humans
and the other inhabitants of this planet.
Once we're no longer
eating animals three times a day,
we'll see a huge relief
in cognitive dissonance
that frees our conscience
to expand our moral circle
to not just farmed animals,
but other populations
like dogs and cats in shelters,
animals used in circuses
and entertainment,
and the vast number of wild animals
who also need our help.
Today, we're laying the foundation
for future social movements
just as social movements of the past
laid the bedrock we now stand on.
Richard Branson predicted
that the food system
will be animal-free in just 30 years.
It might take a little longer than that,
but it's clear that huge change is coming.
You can stand on the right side of history
and play a role in this exciting movement,
whether it's by starting a business
like a local restaurant
or a clean-meat company,
becoming an activist, making a donation,
or simply sharing content on social media.
You can, of course, also participate
as a conscious consumer,
but keep in mind that your own diet choice
is just one of many ways
to have an impact.
This is a time of unbridled
excitement and opportunity,
as we look ahead at one
of the next great social movements.
Humanity's moral circle
will continue to expand,
but only if people
like you and me take hold.
Thank you.
(Applause)